Add backup services initial (#25)
portworx/pxdocs-backup: content/use-px-backup/backup-stateful-applications/cassandra.md

---
title: Cassandra
description: 
keywords: 
weight: 4
hidesections: true
disableprevnext: true
---

> This page provides instructions for users on how to use pre- and post- backups rules with PX-Backup to achieve application consistent backups for Cassandra in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides instructions for users on how to use pre- and post- backup rules with PX-Backup to achieve application-consistent backups for Cassandra in production.
```

## Background

> Cassandra is resilient to node failures, However, Cassandra backups are still necessary to recover from following scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cassandra is resilient to node failures. However, Cassandra backups are still necessary to recover from the following scenarios:
```

> Unauthorized deletions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unauthorized deletions
```

Major failure’s that require a rebuild your entire cluster
Corrupt data
Point in time rollbacks
Disk failure

> Cassandra provides an internal snapshot mechanism to take backups with a tool called nodetool. This can be setup to provide incremental or full snapshot based backups of the data on the node. This tool will flush data from memtables to disk and create a hardlink to the SSTables file on the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cassandra provides an internal snapshot mechanism to take backups with a tool called nodetool. This can be set up to provide incremental or full snapshot-based backups of the data on the node. This tool will flush data from memtables to disk and create a hardlink to the SSTables file on the node.
```

> However, disadvantages of this include the fact that nodetool must be run on each and every cassandra node and data is kept locally increasing the overall storage footprint. What we’re suggesting is to let Portworx backup the cassandra PVs at a block level and ultimately store them in a space efficient object storage target. Portworx allows you to combine techniques that are recommended by cassandra such as flushing data to disk with pre-- and post-- hooks into the application to give you Kubernetes-native and efficient backup of Cassandra data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, disadvantages of this include the fact that nodetool must be run on each and every Cassandra node, and data is kept locally, increasing the overall storage footprint. We suggest letting Portworx backup the Cassandra PVs at a block level, and ultimately store them in a space-efficient object storage target. Portworx allows you to combine techniques that are recommended by Cassandra, such as flushing data to disk with pre-- and post-- hooks into the application to give you Kubernetes-native and efficient backup of Cassandra data.
```

Author: theyre not needed. its short for -exec. Ill just remove them.

> PX-Backup allows application owners to set up pre- and post- hook rules that will be applied before and or after a backup occurs. For cassandra, users may want to create a custom flush, compaction, or verify to ensure a healthy and consistent data set before and after a backup occurs. Rules can run on one or all pods associated with Cassandra which is often a requirement for nodetool commands. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PX-Backup allows application owners to set up pre- and post- hook rules that will be applied before and or after a backup occurs. For Cassandra, users may want to create a custom flush, compaction, or verify to ensure a healthy and consistent data set before and after a backup occurs. Rules can run on one or all pods associated with Cassandra which is often a requirement for nodetool commands. 
```

> For more information on how to run Cassandra on Kubernetes, read [this article][1].

Reviewer: I'd recommend just putting a link here instead of footnoting it. 

```suggestion
For more information on how to run Cassandra on Kubernetes, refer to the [Cassandra on Kubernetes on Portworx](https://docs.portworx.com/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/application-install-with-kubernetes/cassandra/) article.
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

> {{% content "use-px-backup/backup-stateful-applications/shared/common-info.md" %}}

Reviewer: Place shared content in a root-level shared folder:

`/shared/stateful-apps-common-prereqs.md`

shared content distributed throughout the doc set breaks when we move or rename directories/files

{{<info>}}

> Cassandra pods must also be using the `app=cassandra` label.

Reviewer: Identify notes with `**NOTE:**` and join multiple notes into a single info container:

```suggestion
**NOTE:** 

* Cassandra pods must also be using the `app=cassandra` label.
* This example uses the cassandra keyspace `newkeyspace` as an example. If you wish to use this rule for another keyspace, simply replace keyspace within this document with your own.

```

{{</info>}}

{{<info>}}
This example uses the cassandra keyspace `newkeyspace` as an example. If you wish to use this rule for another keyspace, simply replace keyspace within this document with your own.
{{</info>}}

### Create rules for Cassandra

#### Create a pre- backup rule for Cassandra

Create a rule that will run `nodetool flush` for our `newkeyspace` before our backup. This is essential as Portworx will take a snapshot of the backing volume before it places that data in the backup target.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.
3. Add the app label

> `app=cassandra`

Reviewer: Is this part of step 3? if so it needs to made into a text box and indented to appear under the step

> ```text
> app=cassandra
> ```

4. Add the Action

> `nodetool flush -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;`

Reviewer: same comment as above

 ![](/img/cassandra-pre-rule.png)

#### Create a post- backup rule for Cassandra

> A post-exec backup rule for Cassandra isn't as necessary as the pre-exec backup rule above, however, for completeness in production and to verify the keyspace is no corrupt after the backup occurs we will create a rule that runs `nodetool verify`. The verify command will verify (check data checksums for) one or more tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A post-exec backup rule for Cassandra isn't as necessary as the pre-exec backup rule above, however, for completeness in production and to verify the keyspace is not corrupt after the backup occurs, we will create a rule that runs `nodetool verify`. The verify command will verify (check data checksums for) one or more tables.
```

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.
3. Add the app label

> `app=cassandra`

Reviewer: same comment about formatting

4. Add the Action

> `nodetool verify -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;`

Reviewer: same comment about formatting

 ![](/img/cassandra-post-rule.png)

### Use the rules during backup of Cassandra

> To use the Cassandra pre- and post- backup rules, select them as your **Pre-exec** rule and **post-exec** rule when filling out the backup from in the PX-Backup interface. An example of what this looks like is below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Cassandra pre- and post- backup rules, select them as your **Pre-exec** rule and **post-exec** rule when filling out the backup from in the PX-Backup interface. An example of what this looks like is below:
```

 ![](/img/cassandra-use-rules.png)

>  Then click **Create**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've filled out the backup form, click **Create**
```

---
title: Cassandra
description: 
keywords: 
weight: 4
hidesections: true
disableprevnext: true
---

> This page provides instructions for users on how to use pre and post backup rules with PX-Backup to achieve application-consistent backups for Cassandra in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides instructions for users on how to use pre- and post-backup rules with PX-Backup to achieve application-consistent backups for Cassandra in production.
```

## Background

> Cassandra is resilient to node failures. However, Cassandra backups are still necessary to recover from following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On its own, Cassandra is resilient to node failures. However, you still need Cassandra backups to recover from the following scenarios:
```

* Unauthorized deletions
* Major failure’s that require a rebuild your entire cluster
* Corrupt data
* Point in time rollbacks
* Disk failure

> Cassandra provides an internal snapshot mechanism to take backups with a tool called nodetool. This can be set up to provide incremental or full snapshot-based backups of the data on the node. This tool will flush data from memtables to disk and create a hardlink to the SSTables file on the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cassandra provides an internal snapshot mechanism to take backups with a tool called nodetool. You can configure this to provide incremental or full snapshot-based backups of the data on the node. This tool will flush data from memtables to disk and create a hardlink to the SSTables file on the node.
```

> However, disadvantages of this include the fact that `nodetool` must be run on each and every Cassandra node and data is kept locally increasing the overall storage footprint.  Portworx suggests taking a backup of the Cassandra PVs at a block level and to store them in a space efficient object storage target. Portworx allows you to combine techniques that are recommended by Cassandra such as flushing data to disk with pre and post hooks into the application to give users Kubernetes-native and efficient backups of Cassandra data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, disadvantages of this include the fact that you must run `nodetool` on each and every Cassandra node, and it keeps data locally, increasing the overall storage footprint. Portworx, Inc. suggests taking a backup of the Cassandra PVs at a block level and storing them in a space-efficient object storage target. Portworx allows you to combine techniques that are recommended by Cassandra, such as flushing data to disk with pre and post hooks into the application to give users Kubernetes-native and efficient backups of Cassandra data.
```

> PX-Backup allows application owners to set up pre and post hook rules that will be applied before and or after a backup occurs. For Cassandra, can create a custom flush, compaction, or verify rule to ensure a healthy and consistent dataset before and after a backup occurs. Rules can run on one or all pods associated with Cassandra which is often a requirement for nodetool commands. 

Reviewer: Is "You" as I've been writing it == "Application owners" in the context of this doc? 

```suggestion
PX-Backup allows application owners to set up pre and post hook rules that will be applied before and or after a backup occurs. For Cassandra, users can create a custom flush, compaction, or verify rule to ensure a healthy and consistent dataset before and after a backup occurs. Rules can run on one or all pods associated with Cassandra which is often a requirement for nodetool commands. 
```

* This example uses the cassandra keyspace `newkeyspace` as an example. If you wish to use this rule for another keyspace, simply replace keyspace within this document with your own.

### Create rules for Cassandra

#### Create a pre- backup rule for Cassandra

Create a rule that will run `nodetool flush` for our `newkeyspace` before the backup. This is essential as Portworx will take a snapshot of the backing volume before it places that data in the backup target.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.
3. Add the app label
	```text
	app=cassandra
	```

4. Add the Action

	```text
	nodetool flush -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;
	```

 ![](/img/cassandra-pre-rule.png)

#### Create a post- backup rule for Cassandra

A post-exec backup rule for Cassandra isn't as necessary as the pre-exec backup rules above. However, for completeness in production and to verify a keyspace is not corrupt after the backup occurs, create a rule that runs `nodetool verify`. The verify command will verify (check data checksums for) one or more tables.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.

> 3. Add the app label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the app label:
```

	```text
	app=cassandra
	```

> 4. Add the Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the Action:
```

	```text
	nodetool verify -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;
	```

 ![](/img/cassandra-post-rule.png)

### Use the rules during backup of Cassandra

> During the backup creation process, select the rules in the **pre-exec** and **post-exec** drop downs. An example of what this looks like is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the backup creation process, select the rules in the **pre-exec** and **post-exec** drop downs. The example below illustrates what this looks like:
```

 ![](/img/cassandra-use-rules.png)

Once you've filled out the backup form, click **Create**

## Demo

> Watch this short demo of the above information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Watch this short demo of the above information.
```

---
title: Cassandra
description: 
keywords: 
weight: 4
hidesections: true
disableprevnext: true
---

This page provides instructions for users on how to use pre- and post-backup rules with PX-Backup to achieve application-consistent backups for Cassandra in production.

> ## Background

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

PX-Backup allows you to set up pre and post hook rules that will be applied before and or after a backup occurs. For Cassandra, users can create a custom flush, compaction, or verify rule to ensure a healthy and consistent dataset before and after a backup occurs. Rules can run on one or all pods associated with Cassandra which is often a requirement for nodetool commands. 

For more information on how to run Cassandra on Kubernetes, refer to the [Cassandra on Kubernetes on Portworx](https://docs.portworx.com/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/application-install-with-kubernetes/cassandra/) article.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

{{% content "shared/common-info.md" %}}

> **NOTE:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<info>}}
**NOTE:**
```

* Cassandra pods must also be using the `app=cassandra` label.

> * This example uses the cassandra keyspace `newkeyspace` as an example. If you wish to use this rule for another keyspace, simply replace keyspace within this document with your own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This example uses the cassandra keyspace `newkeyspace` as an example. If you wish to use this rule for another keyspace, simply replace keyspace within this document with your own.
{{</info>}}
```

### Create rules for Cassandra

> 

Reviewer: I'm not a huge fan of nested titles with no explanation in between. Maybe we can just provide a sentence of some basic context here:

```suggestion
Create rules for Cassandra that will run both before and after the backup operation runs:
```

> #### Create a pre- backup rule for Cassandra

Reviewer: pre-exec?

```suggestion
#### Create a pre-exec backup rule for Cassandra
```

Create a rule that will run `nodetool flush` for our `newkeyspace` before the backup. This is essential as Portworx will take a snapshot of the backing volume before it places that data in the backup target.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.

> 3. Add the app label

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the app label:

```

	```text
	app=cassandra
	```

> 4. Add the Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the Action:
```

	```text
	nodetool flush -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;
	```

>  ![](/img/cassandra-pre-rule.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	![](/img/cassandra-pre-rule.png)
```

> #### Create a post- backup rule for Cassandra

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be post-exec?

```suggestion
#### Create a post-exec backup rule for Cassandra
```

A post-exec backup rule for Cassandra isn't as necessary as the pre-exec backup rules above. However, for completeness in production and to verify a keyspace is not corrupt after the backup occurs, create a rule that runs `nodetool verify`. The verify command will verify (check data checksums for) one or more tables.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.
3. Add the app label:

	```text
	app=cassandra
	```

4. Add the Action:

	```text
	nodetool verify -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;
	```

>  ![](/img/cassandra-post-rule.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	 ![](/img/cassandra-post-rule.png)
```

> ### Use the rules during backup of Cassandra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the rules during Cassandra backup operations
```

> During the backup creation process, select the rules in the **pre-exec** and **post-exec** drop downs. The example below illustrates what this looks like:

Reviewer: We can drop the mention of the example actually.

```suggestion
During the backup creation process, select the rules in the **pre-exec** and **post-exec** dropdowns:
```

For more information on how to run Cassandra on Kubernetes, refer to the [Cassandra on Kubernetes on Portworx](https://docs.portworx.com/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/application-install-with-kubernetes/cassandra/) article.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

{{% content "shared/common-info.md" %}}

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:**

* Cassandra pods must also be using the `app=cassandra` label.
* This example uses the cassandra keyspace `newkeyspace` as an example. If you wish to use this rule for another keyspace, simply replace keyspace within this document with your own.
{{</info>}}

### Create rules for Cassandra

Create rules for Cassandra that will run both before and after the backup operation runs:

#### Create a pre-exec backup rule for Cassandra

Create a rule that will run `nodetool flush` for our `newkeyspace` before the backup. This is essential as Portworx will take a snapshot of the backing volume before it places that data in the backup target.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.

> 3. Add the app label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the following app label:
```

	```text
	app=cassandra
	```

> 4. Add the Action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the following action:
```

	```text
	nodetool flush -- <your-cassandra-keyspace>;
	```

	![](/img/cassandra-pre-rule.png)

#### Create a post-exec backup rule for Cassandra

A post-exec backup rule for Cassandra isn't as necessary as the pre-exec backup rules above. However, for completeness in production and to verify a keyspace is not corrupt after the backup occurs, create a rule that runs `nodetool verify`. The verify command will verify (check data checksums for) one or more tables.

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Rules** → **Add New**.
2. Add a name for your Rule.

> 3. Add the app label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the following app label:
```

	```text
	app=cassandra
	```

> 4. Add the Action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the following action:
```
